---
title: "Time-parametrization of a geometric path"
author: ["Hung Pham"]
date: 2020-07-31
categories: ["blog"]
draft: false
---

Robotic motion planning is the problem of finding a smooth, high-quality
and collision-free trajectory for a robots moving in an cluttered
environment. See
[here](http://www.osrobotics.org/osr/planning/path%5Fplanning.html) for
an introduction to robotic motion planning.

In this note, we only consider an component of the robotic motion
planning pipeline--path parametrization. This is a **critical step** in
the pipeline for achieving high-quality motions, especially when the
task subject to stringent dynamic constraints (suction cup, friction) or
kinematic constraints (e.g. robot actuation limits). See our recent work
Pham and Pham (2019) for experimental results.

The time-parametrization problem can be concisely given as follows.
Given a geometric path \\(\mathbf{p}(s) \in \mathbb{R}^n\\) the time
parametrization \\(s(t) \in \mathbb{R}\\), which is found in a prior
stage, find the time-parametrized trajectory \\(\mathbf{q}(t)\in
\mathbb{R}^n\\) of the robot.

Note that how to find the time-parametrization is a different problem
from the one discussed here. See Pham and Pham (2018) or the
accompanying library [toppra](https://github.com/hungpham2511/toppra)
instead.

## Kinematic derivations

By application of the chain rule, one can derive the trajectory and its
higher-oder derivatives as functions of the geometric path and the
time-parameterizion. Indeed, the trajectory is simply

\begin{equation}
  \mathbf q(t) := \mathbf p(s(t))
\end{equation}

Applying the chain rule to obtain

\begin{align}
  \dot {\mathbf{q}} (t) & = \mathbf{p}'(s(t)) \dot s(t)\\\\\\
  \ddot {\mathbf{q}} (t) & = \mathbf{p}''(s(t)) \dot s(t)^2 + \mathbf{p}'(s(t)) \ddot s(t)
\end{align}

We can carry on this evaluation further to obtain higher-order
derivatives of the trajectory using the geometric path and the
parametrization.

``` python
import sympy as sy
t = sy.symbols('t')
p, s = sy.symbols('p s', cls=sy.Function)
q = p(s(t))

qd = sy.Derivative(q, (t, 1), evaluate=True)
qdd = sy.Derivative(q, (t, 2), evaluate=True)
qddd = sy.Derivative(q, (t, 3), evaluate=True)

outputs = """
{:} &= {:} \\\\
{:} &= {:} \\\\
{:} &= {:}
""".format(
    "\\dot{q}(t)", sy.latex(qd),
    "\\ddot{q}(t)", sy.latex(qdd),
    "\\dddot{q}(t)", sy.latex(qddd))

outputs = "\\begin{align}\n" + outputs + "\n\\end{align}"
outputs
```

Evaluating the above code block leads to:

\begin{align}
\dot{q}(t) &= \frac{d}{d s{\left(t \right)}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)} \\\\\\
\ddot{q}(t) &= \frac{d}{d s{\left(t \right)}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \frac{d^{2}}{d t^{2}} s{\left(t \right)} + \frac{d^{2}}{d s{\left(t \right)}^{2}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \left(\frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)}\right)^{2} \\\\\\
\dddot{q}(t) &= \frac{d}{d s{\left(t \right)}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \frac{d^{3}}{d t^{3}} s{\left(t \right)} + 3 \frac{d^{2}}{d s{\left(t \right)}^{2}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)} \frac{d^{2}}{d t^{2}} s{\left(t \right)} + \frac{d^{3}}{d s{\left(t \right)}^{3}} p{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \left(\frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)}\right)^{3}
\end{align}

Assuming that the geometric paths and the time-parametrization are
available and compatible (e.g., having the same domain), the
time-parametrization is solved. Indeed, the output trajectory's
derivatives are computed using the input geometric path and the
time-parametrization as in the following pseudocode:

``` nil
def trajectory(t):
  return p(s(t))

def first_derivative(t):
   return p'(s(t)) * s'(t)

def second_derivative(t):
   return p'(s(t)) * s''(t) + p''(s(t)) s'(t) ** 2
```

The geometric path \\(\mathbf{p}(s)\\) is usually given as a smooth
piecewise-polynomial trajectory, and thus can be used directly. In
contrast, \\(s(t)\\) is usually not available and must be derived.

## Derivatives of the time-parameterization function

In practice, the path parametrization is usually given by the path
positions \\((s\_0, \dots, s\_{N})\\) and path velocities \\((s^d\_0,
\dots, s^d\_{N})\\). Further, the path velocities are all non-negative.
Note that \\(N\\) is the number of segments along the path. In order to
solve the path parametrization problem using the expressions derived in
the last section, we need to find a representation of the
time-parametrization function \\(s(t)\\) that allows differentiation.
This representation \\(s\_m(t)\\) must satisfies the following
conditions:

\begin{equation}
\forall i, \exists t\_i, s\_m(t\_i) = s\_i, \; \dot{s}\_m(t\_i) = s^d\_i.
\end{equation}

In words, the representation \\(s\_m(t)\\) needs to be consistent with
the input data.

In OOP language, we want to implement a class that realizes the
following interface:

``` python
class SmoothFunction:
  domain: double[2]
  def evaluate(time: double, order: int) -> ndarray[double, dof]:
```

Here, `dof` equals 1 because the time-parametrization is a scalar
function. The actual parametrization, is constructed from the path
positions and velocities:

``` python
class TimeParametrization(SmoothFunction):
   def __init__(self,
        positions: ndarray[double, N + 1],
        velocities: ndarray[double, N + 1]) -> None:
```

### Constant-acceleration representation

We consider now a common condition for deriving \\(s\_m(t)\\): The path
acceleration \\(\ddot{s}(t)\\) is constant in each segment.

See Hauser (2014) for an expository of this approach.

### Spline-based velocity profile

A problem with the constant acceleration assumption is that for
time-optimal parametrizations, there are acceleration jumps in the
velocity profile. Physically, this is harmful to the robot motors and
cause bad tracking error. In this section, we explore the idea of
fitting a smooth polynomial that satisfies acceleration continuity or
satisfying jerk constraints

Notice that it is not actually necessary to satisfy this consistency
condition:

\begin{equation}
\forall i, \exists t\_i, s\_m(t\_i) = s\_i, \; \dot{s}\_m(t\_i) = s^d\_i.
\end{equation}

Rather, it's sufficient to satisfies

\begin{equation}
\forall i \in [0, N], \exists t\_i, s\_m(t\_i) = s\_i, \; \dot{s}\_m(t\_i) = s^d\_i.
\end{equation}

This is because there is simply no merit to "hitting" all the
velocities.

Suppose we fit a smoothing spline that returns path velocity
\\(\dot s\\) given path position \\(s\\). Let this function be \\(v(s \|
\theta)\\) where \\(\theta\\) is the spline parameters. We can obtain
function \\(t\_m(s)\\) by doing the integral \\\[ t(s) = \int\_{0}^s
\frac{ds}{v(s)} \\\] This can be done numerically using a numerical
integration algorithm
[scipy.integrate](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/integrate.html).
The result of this step is the time array \\(t\_0,\dots,t\_{N}\\)
corresponding to \\(s\_0,\dots,s\_{N}\\). We can then fit another
polynomial on the arrays \\(t\_i, s\_i\\) to obtain respectively the
position, velocity and acceleration functions:

\begin{equation}
s\_m(t), \dot{s}\_m(t), \ddot{s}\_m(t).
\end{equation}

Obtain sequences \\(t\_0,\dots,t\_M\\) and \\(s\_0,\dots,s\_M\\), we can
then fit a spline \\(s\_{spl}(t)\\) and then uses this spline as
\\(s\_m(t)\\). This method actually has very good property, i.e. with
densed-points, spline approximate approaches the actual function.

### Obtaining a good representation of the path velocity

This section is pretty much a work in progress.

``` python
import sympy as sy
t = sy.symbols('t')
v, s = sy.symbols('v s', cls=sy.Function)
sfunc = v(s(t))

sd = sy.Derivative(sfunc, (t, 1), evaluate=True)
sdd = sy.Derivative(sfunc, (t, 2), evaluate=True)
sddd = sy.Derivative(sfunc, (t, 3), evaluate=True)

outputs = """
{:} &= {:} \\\\
{:} &= {:} \\\\
{:} &= {:}
""".format(
    "\\dot{s}(t)", sfunc,
    "\\ddot{s}(t)", sy.latex(sd),
    "\\dddot{s}(t)", sy.latex(sdd),
    "\\ddddot{s}(t)", sy.latex(sddd))

outputs = "\\begin{align}\n" + outputs + "\n\\end{align}"
outputs
```

\begin{align}

    \dot{s}(t) &= v(s(t)) \\\\\\
    \ddot{s}(t) &= \frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)} \frac{d}{d s{\left(t \right)}} v{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} \\\\\\
    \dddot{s}(t) &= \left(\frac{d}{d t} s{\left(t \right)}\right)^{2} \frac{d^{2}}{d s{\left(t \right)}^{2}} v{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)} + \frac{d^{2}}{d t^{2}} s{\left(t \right)} \frac{d}{d s{\left(t \right)}} v{\left(s{\left(t \right)} \right)}

\end{align}

In short form we can write \\(\dot{v} = v v', ; \ddot{v} = v^2 v'' + v
v'^2\\)

Ok, we are here but I am still stucked. Unable to move forward. Perharps
there is nothing more to this?

## Related note

[MaintainToppra]({{< relref "TOPPRA" >}})
[OnTrajectoryInterpolationInToppra]({{< relref "20200331082950-on_trajectory_interpolation_in_toppra" >}})

## References {#references}

<div id="refs" class="references hanging-indent">
  <div></div>


<div id="ref-hauser2014">
  <div></div>

Hauser, Kris. 2014. "Fast interpolation and time-optimization with
contact." *The International Journal of Robotics Research* 33 (9):
1231--50. <https://doi.org/10.1177/0278364914527855>.

</div>

<div id="ref-pham2018critically">
  <div></div>

Pham, Hung, and Quang-Cuong Pham. 2019. "Critically fast pick-and-place
with suction cups." *Accepted at 2019 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA)*.

</div>

<div id="ref-pham2018new">
  <div></div>

---------. 2018. "A New Approach to Time-Optimal Path Parameterization
Based on Reachability Analysis." *IEEE Transactions on Robotics*, July.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2018.2819195>.

</div>

</div>
