---
title:  "Test-driven development note." 
date:   2019-5-5
tags: programming
layout: single
published: true
---

Suppose we want to design a process that provides multiple
services. Each service is a microservice, that is it is stateless and
all that RESTful thingy. How should we test/develop this?

Many times, because there are just too many ways to do the same thing,
we can find starting rather confusing. What direction should I take?
Why not choosing *that* direction?

A major benefit of Test-driven development (TDD), most suprisingly, is
that it dictates a workflow, hence, reducing the cognitive uncertainty
of starting. More clearly, if we think, not about how to *code*,
rather, what we wish the piece of code that we have not written yet
does, then development becomes much more straightforward.

For instance, the first thing I would want to do is to insanitate an
instand of this process:

```python
def test_init(robot_fixture):
    robot = robot_fixture
    proc = GeometricComputationServer(robot)
```
    
Now, if I run this test I will surely have a `NotImplemented`
error. The easiest way to get over this is to define a dummy
`GeometricComputationServer` class.

```python
class GeometricComputationServer(object):
    def __init__(self, robot):
        pass
```

Alright, the test will now pass. We have obtained the very first test
case. Now what?. The next thing we want to do is to define a callback
to return wrench mapping given two frames: The original frame in which
the wrench is measure and the target frame of interest. Alright, so
the first thing is to check for problematic edge cases:
- one or both of the frames doesn't exist
- more than two frames
- return result for target stuuffs.

For the first case, we can write a test script:

```python
def test_init(robot_fixture):
    robot = robot_fixture
    proc = GeometricComputationServer(robot)

    request = ComputeRequest(arg_text=["ftsensor", "manip_not_exist"])
    response = prob._cb_compute_wrench_mapping_(request)

    # assertion
    assert not response.success
    assert "not exist" in response.message
```

 This test should fail because we have not defined
 `_cb_compute_wrench_mapping` yet. A dummy implementation such as the
 one below can help us pass this test:
 
 ```python
 def _cb_compute_wrench_mapping(self, request):
     return ComputeResponse(success=False, message="Input frame does not exist.")
 ```

 We can let this bad implementation here for now, and continue with
 the next test. 
 
