---
title:  "Convex Controller Synthesis for Robot Contact"
date:   2020-05-03
categories: [robotics, research]
researchMeta: [2020, "IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2020, and ICRA 2020"]
published: true
authors: Hung Pham, Quang-Cuong Pham
toc: false
---

By **Hung Pham** and Quang-Cuong Pham, in _IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters_, 2020. Also presented at ICRA 2020. [[paper (arXiv)][cvx-ar]]


## Introducing CCS

In many applications of robotics, it is essential that robots response
to external forces properly when it makes contact with the external
environment. This class of problems is almost as old as robotics
itself: The first seminal works date back to the 80s. And there have
been many research since then, most notably *Admittance/Impedance*
control, *Hybrid Force* control.

What one can achieve with these classical approaches is quite
limited. Consider admittance controller, there are three parameters:
mass, spring and damper. It's hard to believe that the best controller
is realized by a selection of just these three parameters. And yet,
finding a good set of parameters is not at all easy. Should you
increase the mass or the damping coefficients. And which direction?

These are hard questions. It would be ideal to have an algorithm that
can perform the search for the best controller automatically using a
more generic structure, without the limitation of a fixed controller
structure. This is exactly what I propose in this work.


## Our Experiments

Two experiments we perform in preparation for the manuscript:
Hand-guiding and force control using the same.


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uqYXVB5Sqlg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Code

[github repository](http://github.com/hungpham2511/infinite_interaction/)


## Paper Abstract

  Controlling contacts is truly challenging, and this has been a major
  hurdle to deploying industrial robots into
  unstructured/human-centric environments. More specifically, the main
  challenges are: (i) how to ensure stability at all times; (ii) how
  to satisfy task-specific performance specifications; (iii) how to
  achieve (i) and (ii) under environment uncertainty, robot parameters
  uncertainty, sensor and actuator time delays, external
  perturbations, etc. Here, we propose a new approach -- Convex
  Controller Synthesis (CCS) -- to tackle the above challenges based
  on robust control theory and convex optimization. In two physical
  interaction tasks -- robot hand guiding and sliding on surfaces with
  different and unknown stiffnesses -- we show that CCS controllers
  outperform their classical counterparts in an essential way.
  


[cvx-ar]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.04313
